>> Mike North: Welcome to
Domain Modeling for Humans and AI.
My name is Mike north and I'm a principal
staff engineer and product architect at
Stripe and I've been a front end
master's instructor for over 10 years.
Today I'm going to be talking to
you about taking a complex problem,
studying it, working closely with
domain experts and AI agents that
you're using to sort of structure your
code and define your architecture.
And how do we take those
complex business problems and
translate them into manageable units of
code that are self contained, where you
can evolve over time quickly and easily as
the requirements of your software change.
So what am I focusing in on here?
What is domain modeling and
why am I here to talk to you about this?
A big part of what I do at Stripe is I
work closely with teams to make sure that
the foundational building blocks we
are creating layer up in a way where we
can offer low level and
high level things and we don't
end up having to change our APIs all the
time and change our products all the time.
So at the lowest level you can think we
have the concept of money moving between
two places because Stripe is at its
core a payments processing company.
On top of that we have this concept of
a payment with a payment method and
you can layer up and up and eventually
you get to these drop in checkout forms
that are sort of turnkey and ready to go.
And they have concepts like
shipping options and all of that.
And so being able to really think
about all of those building blocks and
how they layer up is a valuable skill.
And Stripe really focuses in on this.
Part of this is involving is studying
your problem space to discover the key
entities, their relationships
with each other, and
any constraints that are at the essence of
the problem that you're trying to solve.
Then of course the process of
taking that mental model and
translating that into
a software architecture.
In this course we're going to be talking
a little bit about domain driven design.
Now this is a 20 year old concept.
There are many good books about this.
Eric Evans has a great book on this topic.
We're going to borrow some ideas from
this that are particularly useful.
Like any software architecture concept,
you don't want to be adhering
to these ideas too rigidly.
You should think about them
as tools in the toolbox and
you pull them out when
they're useful to you.
But there are a couple gems that are at
the core of domain driven design
that I think every software
engineer should be applying.
Particularly in a world where
we are increasingly using
agentic coding tools to
Help us author software.
You're collaborating with product
owners and customers, and
you're collaborating with an AI as well.
If you bake the same language and
the same concepts into
your code as the way the business
is referring to these things,
you have a better shot at working together
collaboratively to develop this solution,
even though you're the person
that's writing the code.
Another point here, why domain
modeling is important, at least for
me, this represents a part of
the engineering career ladder.
So you can think of becoming
a staff engineer as learning
how to deal with technical
ambiguity very well.
That's often part of what it
means to be a staff engineer.
Someone takes a well defined problem and
gives it to you, and
your job is to sort of figure out like,
all right, what frameworks are available,
what libraries,
what off the shelf tooling can I use?
It's sort of up to you to define
how that solution takes shape.
Domain modeling is a great tool for
handling business ambiguity, and
that is ambiguity in the problem space,
not the solution space.
So if someone just gives
you a vague problem like,
I've got a video course
website to teach front end
engineers, how should I set this up?
What do people need?
What are the important entities that
are at the essence of solving that problem
in any meaningful way?
This is a really important part of growing
your career at that more senior level,
as sort of the lines
between product manager and
engineer start to blur
together a little bit and
you start to think about like this
architect track of your career.
So why do I feel like domain modeling is
a useful concept to teach in TypeScript?
Well, TypeScript types
are incredibly expressive.
They're not the most
expressive in the world.
Like if you look at Rust,
they have this concept of lifetimes, and
right in the types, you can see some
representation of Are you allowed
to mutate this object that's
passed to you or not?
TypeScript can't do that
because underneath it
is the JavaScript programming language and
we don't have those concepts.
But TypeScript strikes this really
nice balance between being incredibly
expressive and relatively simple to read,
as well as being widely used.
Which means it doesn't matter if
your company is using protobufs or
JSON schemas, or
whatever representation you choose for
representing contracts between system
components of whatever you're building.
Usually you can start with
TypeScript interfaces and types, and
you can generate whatever
you need based on that.
So increasingly this is being used
as sort of a source of truth for
shapes of objects, contracts
between things, even public APIs.
There are some nice frameworks like,
I think it's type API, that
really let you use a set of TypeScript
interfaces as the source of truth,
and then you can generate
SDKs based on those types.
So to study domain modeling,
we're going to need a complex
problem space to dive into.
Selfishly, I'm going to have you all work
with me to solve a real problem that
I have.
I have a fairly substantial
vegetable garden, and here it is.
I took a picture a couple days ago before
I flew out to Minneapolis to film this.
And you can see I've got a lot
of these metal things here.
These are called raised beds.
So they're just like, metal sort of bins.
They don't have a bottom.
And you fill them with soil, and
you put some rocks in the bottom so
they drain well.
But, like, ultimately,
you're planting things in them.
So you can see here, like, I've arranged
them, you can see a couple little,
like, these are tomato
plants that are growing,
and I've got close to
40 of these things now.
It's a lot to manage.
The story starts with figuring out
what kind of seeds you wanna order.
And once you start ordering seeds
from some of these companies,
they will send you these catalogs
where it's just like this one here.
The whole seed catalog is probably,
you know, 2 inches thick.
And you can flip through this and
see, like,
every variety of tomato
you could ever imagine.
And you order seeds, and then you
end up with a collection like this.
And it's a lot like,
this is a collection that I've amassed
over maybe three, four, five years.
Some of these are old, which means
they're less likely to be effective.
Right.
It's not food that expires necessarily
where it goes bad.
But the older the seeds are,
the less likely they are to work.
And so figuring that out is challenging.
These seeds all need to be.
They turn into plants which want to go
into the ground at different times, right?
Some of these, they're fine to
plant in the dead of winter.
It's totally fine.
Like broccoli, you can do that.
But sweet basil with really soft leaves,
that if it gets anywhere near a frost,
it's gonna absolutely get wiped out.
And so just figuring out, like, when you
plant things, what's still good to use?
How far apart do you plant these things?
There is a lot of complexity here.
After I start with the seeds, like,
during the winter, I have these
little hydroponic bins where I drop
seeds into each of these Little baskets.
There's a little growing sponge in there,
and you put a seed in, and
it'll grow purely in water.
So there's water in this black bin and
you put some nutrients in there and
it'll grow.
So now we have, like,
an additional level of complexity here.
Like, these have to sort of get
started indoors at the right time so
that they go outside whenever it's right
for the plant, whatever that means.
We're gonna have to figure that out and
model that somehow,
and then they get planted outside.
And you can see here,
when I do plant these,
I separate plants by some
certain distance here.
So this is a zucchini plant.
It's going to get very big,
and these are little peppers,
and they'll stay relatively small.
And so, like,
how far apart do we put these things?
There are a lot of properties of these
plants that we need to model if we're
going to solve the problem of
organizing my raised beds and
my seed collection effectively.
So we're gonna work on a piece of
software today to make this a lot easier.
And we're gonna apply domain modeling in
order to keep the complexity contained.
We're gonna have some business rules,
like what should be planted next to other
things, or
how far apart should things be spaced.
And we're gonna see how it's easy
to contain this business logic and
make it modular so
that hopefully you can see that over time.
If we were to add 20 rules to this, like,
how much water does the plant need?
How much sunlight does it need?
What kind of fertilizer
should it be using?
Like, all of that could be modeled and
added onto this in a way where the overall
complexity of the software is not going
to skyrocket as the user's needs evolve.
So there are kind of two main
pages we're gonna focus on here.
One is the seed collection.
So this is going to be solving kind of
this problem here where we're incredibly
disorganized.
Like, how do we model one
of these seed packets?
What information goes on the back?
I'm going to play sort of your user here,
and
you're going to learn how to sort
of tease information out of me so
that you can identify, like, what are the
most useful aspects of this to flesh out?
Right.
You could go in so many directions, but,
like, part of what we're
trying to learn here is, like,
how do you get to the essence
of what's most important?
Then the more involved
part of this workshop,
after we solve the seed collection in
a basic way, we have waiting for us.
A drag and drop user interface
where you can grab these tiles,
each of which represents a plant.
And you can see carrots has
this little down arrow.
There are many types of carrots here.
You can drag them into the raised bed.
And we're going to think about validation,
logic, and how do we model the idea
of putting a plant in a bed, moving it
within a bed, moving it across beds.
We'll talk a little bit later
about transactionality.
Which of these operations
should be atomic,
meaning either all succeeds or
all fails versus which ones?
Is it okay that things
are temporarily out of sync and
will eventually converge
on a consistent result?